Software Engg. Principles : Guidelines for developing Quality, Maintainability, Code efficiency, code reuse etc applications

1. Separation of Concern
2. Modularization
3. Abstraction (what rather than how)
4. Anticipation of Changes 
         - General code (de-couple codes)
         - Incremental Development
         - Consistent Look and Feel
5. DRY - Do not Repeat Yourselves
6. KISS - Keep it Simple Stupid
7. YAGNI - You Aren't Gonna Need It (unnecessary features and functionalities to be avoided)
8. SOLID - Are design principles

S  -  Single Responsibility principle (SRP) a class, struct in the code should always have one job to do
O  -  Open Close Principle (OCP) : a s/w module/class is open for extension and closed for modifications
L  -  Liskovs Substitution Principle (LSP) : It is an extension to OCP, where derived types should not change the behaviour of the super types (Usage of Interface)
I  -  Interface Segregation Principle(ISP): Instead of one Thick Interface, try creating more thin interfaces with minimum methods. Since implementing class are not be forced to implement all methods of the interface 
D   Dependency Inversion principle (DIP) : States no high level modules/classes(consumers/clients) should interact with low level modules/classes (implementing classes). Both should depend on abstraction(layered architecture)

DIP - a design principle suggest solutions to dependency problem, and not any techniques

- IOC (Inversion of Control) - is the actual mechanism for implementing DIP
-  DI - Dependency Injection - is a design pattern to inject concrete implementations of the low level module/components into the high level components

 DI can be used  as below

1. Constructor injections :Instance of the dependency type can be passed as an argument to the constructor of the dependent type
2. Method Injection : Instance of the dependency type can be passed as an argument to the method of a class(dependant  type)
3. Property Injection : Instance of the dependency type can be passed as an argument to the property of a class(dependant  type)



Categories of Design Patterns

1. Creational : the patterns are focused in handling object creation and instantiation decoupled with the implementing code and the client
    a) Factory Pattern
    b) Factory Method Pattern

    	 Product : An interface for product operations ( CreditCard)
     	 Concrete Product : class that implements the product (MB, Platinum, Titanium)
         Abstract Creator : is an abstract class that declares the factory method (creditcardfactory)
         Concrete creators : class/es that implement the abstract creator (MBfac, Titfac, Platfac)
         Client : consumer 

    c) Abstract Factory Pattern  : Encapsulating group of factories with a common theme 	
		
                AbstractProduct :  Interface for a type of a product (IBike, ICar)
                ConcreteProducts : implements the abstract product (RegularBike, SportsBike, RegularCar, SportsCar)
		AbstractFactory : Declares an Interface for operations (IVehicleFactory)
                ConcreteFactory  : implements the abstract factory methods (RegularVehicleFactory , SportsVehicleFactory)
                Client : consumer 

    d) SingleTon Pattern : Is used to ensure only one instance of a class is provided as a global point of access.
                       Eg : Shared resources (database, configuration files, filesystem, logging, caching etc)


Guidelines for Singleton DP
1. Private , parameter less constructor (this will restrict other classes to create instances. Only instances are possible within
2. Sealed class(to avoid inheritance and inner class usage) 
3. Private static variable ( that holds a single instance)
4. Public static Method or property (this method will return a singleton instance)

Note : If we do not make our dependency class sealed , then there are possibilities of derivation inside the parent class, even though the constructor is private. This will create multiple instances violating singleton Pattern


Static Class Vs Singleton

Is a class                                               is a design Pattern
static constructor                                       private constructor
Cannot inherit by default                                Unless used with sealed modifier, we can inherit (inner class)
Cannot pass the static object as a parameter             We can pass the dependency class object as a parameter
has only instance                                        has only one instance

DI allows loosely coupled software components
1. Client Class : dependant class on some service/s
2. Service Class : dependency class (that serves the clients)
3. Injector : Inject the service onto the client

DI is simply creating dependency objects and giving it to the dependant class rather than the dependant creating for itself


Unity Container : is an inversion of control container, which is a general purpose extensible opensource 

 - Specifies the type of objects to be created and injected
 - Registering the types
 - Resolving concrete types with the registered types

Registered Types (interface/abstract classes)
Concrete Types (interface/abstract class, implementing classes)

Resolving is basically mapping the registered type with the concrete type

Layered Architecture : where components of specific functionalities can be grouped as one

User Interface - UI
Business Layer - where all business rules are implemented
Data Layer - where all data related activities happen (database connection, command, retrieval of data etc..)

IOC products in the Market

Unity
CastleWindsor
StructureMap
Spring.Net
Ninject 

steps for DI
 - Installation of unity.ioc.framework
 - create Ioc objects
 - Register the service and concrete types
 - Resolve the dependencies
 - Start calling the service methods

Pros and Cons of DI

Pros : Isolation (Works well for both Testing and development)
       Clear definition of dependency classes (service classes)
       Facilitating Good Design
       Quick switching of implementations

Cons  : Increased number of classes
        Creation of many Interfaces

2. Structural Pattern :Modifications to the structure of a class, interface or struct

3. Behaviour Pattern : Modifications to the functionality of a class

