Await in catch/finally

 
Expression Bodied Method :is a feature that simplifies/reduces the programming code by creating expression bodies for functions and properties. It is similar to that of lambda expressions, but an extension


Name of : Expression produces the name of a variable, type, or member as string constants
         Is used to point out errors if any in our code during compilation time and has no effect during runtime

Throw Expression : enhancement of code to throw an exception thru an expression 


Extern Aliases : When we have name clashes between 1 or more libraries that are included in a project, then we may avoid the ambiguity by creating extern aliases. (Are alias names given to libraries that have same class names/function names/member names)


Local Functions : If we want to execute some piece of code multiple times within a function, then we can place such codes as inner functions called as local function
 Note : 1. We cannot overload Local Functions
        2. Cannot alter access modifiers such as private, public, protected, internal etc
        3. All variables in the enclosing scope, including local variables can be accessed
        4. Compiler throws a warning, if the parent function does not call the local function


Tuples: Is a data structure that contains a sequence of elements of different data types. It can hold objects with its properties, and we don't have to create a separate type for it

Why Tuples : If we wish to have multiple return values from a method, then we can use tuples

Different ways in which we can return multiple values 
1. Using Custom Datatype : Eg Employee object . We can return multiple values(properties) from a method using a custom object (i.e class). But in some scenarios, we may not need all the date.

2. using Ref and out : We can return multiple values from a method using 'out', but understanding and internal implementations are a bit difficult. out and ref are not allowed with async methods

3. Use Dynamic type : We can return multiple values from a method using dynamic datatype. But from performance point of view, we may not want to use Dynamic types

Hence preference is to go for tuples

Pattern matching: allows testing an expression for a given pattern. Results in either matching or not (true or a false ), without extra casting or checks 

1. type pattern 
2. Constant Pattern    
3. Comparison
4. Relational 
5. Position  (5,10) ("Bob",27)(true, false)
6. var pattern 
7. Property pattern

static void PrintUppercase(object arg)
{
  if arg is a string then convert
if(arg is string)
{ cw(arg.ToUpper())
}
     
3 main constructs for pattern matching

1. is operator
2. switch statement
3. switch expression
     var result = expression switch
{
  pattern1 => value1,
  pattern2 => value2,
 -=>default value
};

Non-Nullable 

