Access Specifiers : defines the scope and visibility of a class member. C# Supports the following

Public : All classes within the assembly or outside the assembly with or without derivation can access the public members
         We just need an object of the class where public members are declared, to access it
               1. make the class public whose object we need to create
               2. Add reference to assembly where the public class is written
               3. Use the assembly in the place were you need it

Private : Accessible only to the class where it is declared 
          No access anywhere

Protected : Protected members of a class are accessible to all the derived types within the assembly or outside the assembly

Internal : Acts Like public access specifier, allowing both derived and non-derived classes.
           But only within the assembly

Internal Protected / protected Internal :
         Internal to all the derived or non-derived classes of the assembly and
         Protected to all the derived classes of other assembly

Note :
By Default all classes in CSharp are internal
By default all members of the class are private


                                         internal member                    protected internal

same assembly non derived class             yes                                   yes

same assembly derived type                  yes- via internal                   yes via protected

different assembly non-derived              No                                    No

different assembly derived type             No                                    yes via protected
      
 

Inheritance : extensions of the capabilities of a class
  C# supports 
   Single, Multilevel and hybrid inheritance
   No support for multiple inheritance

2 type of broadly classifiable relations are :
  1. 'is a'  relation   (inheritance)
  2. 'has a' relation   (composition/aggregation)

1. class dog(){ }   --> class Labrador :Dog(){}   Labrador is a Dog

2. class Engine{
     int Engine id; 
  double Horsepower;
   
}

class Car{
  Engine engine;  an object of engine class declared as a field in car class
  string Make;
  double Cost;

}                car 'has' a engine


- Base class initialization thru derived class constructor is a must if base class has only parameterized constructors. This is done using base keyword

Polymorphism : Ability of an object to respond differently to different messages or different objects responding differently to the same message

  - Overloading : 1)function overloading

         - are functions with the same name and different signatures in terms of the arguments(i.e. either in the number of arguments or in the data type) 
         - is a concept within a class
         - we can achieve static polymorphism/compile time polymorphism/early binding thru overloading
         - binding means resolving the function calls          
 
                  2)operator overloading :
              - are also seen within a class
              - are meant to give similar effects as that of systemic types
              - have to be declared always as public and static only
              - the return type is also the same as the enclosing type
              - we can get static polymorphism 

  - Overriding : is seen across related classes
                - the signature has to be always the same
                - does not allow us to change the access specifier, modifier, return type, argument type/nos.
                - derived class has to always use the override modifier, and the base class has to mark the function as virtual
                - we can achieve dynamic polymorphism thru co-variance/late binding

