                          Interface                                      Abstract Class

Multiple Inheritance     A class may inherit several interfaces     A class can inherit only one abstract class 
Default Implementation   No code, only signature                    complete/default code / or just signature 
Access Modifiers         No access modifiers, all are public        Can contain access modifiers(functions/properties etc)
Core Vs Peripheral       Are used to define peripheral abilities    Are used to define the core identity, and used by objects of same 									type 
Speed                 Requires more time to find the actual method    Fast
Fields and Constants  No                                               Yes
Adding Functionality   Involves tracking down all the implementation   Have options to provide default implementation.



GoTo Labels : are used to transfer control within the function
              they are used with any valid identifiers followed by ':'
              they are unstructured way to control flow of statements


Garbage Collection : GC always works on managed heap
                     It internally has a n engine called Optimization Engine.
                     Garbage collection occurs if at least one of the below condition is satisfied
                        1. if the systems has low physical memory
                        2. if the memory allocated to various objects in the heap exceeds a pre-set threshold
                        3. if forceful collection using GC.Collect() is issued/called

3 Phases of GC :
   1. Marking Phase : List of all live objects that are created
   2. Re Locating Phase : Live objects references are updated
   3. Compacting Phase : heap gets compacted and the space occupied by the dead objects are released

3 generations of GC : 
    1. generation 0 : newly allocated objects
    2. generation 1 : objects left after generation 0 garbage
    3. generation 2 : objects left after generation 1 garbage

Important methods of Gc:
     1. GC.GetGeneration() : return the generation number
     2. GC.GetTotalMemory() : returns the number of bytes allocated
     3. GC.Collect();

Dispose  : is usually written and called by our code.
           The resources are freed instantly on call
           To implement dispose(), the class has to implement IDisposable interface
           

Finalize : is meant to be called by the GC and not by our 


Using clause in c# : The usage of using has 3 functionalities
   1. namespace usage
   2. static class usage
   3. code block usage - the using block will dispose all objects created without having to explicitly call the Dispose()

Operators :

Equals : Equality operator == checks whether two operands are equal or not, and the Object.Equals() checks if 2 object instances are equal or not

ReferenceEquals : Checks if 2 objects are pointing to the same location. The data pointed to is not compared

CompareTo : This method acts upon 2 values (like strings or numbers). It returns an int value
        (-1,1,0)
 A negative number indicates the first value is smaller.
 A positive number indicates the first value is bigger
 A Zero indicates both are equal

Types of classes : 
1. Abstract class - cannot be instantiated, but can be inherited
2. Static class : can neither be inherited nor instantiated. All members have to be static only. Is called using the classname
3. Sealed Class : Can be instantiated, but cannot be inherited
4. Partial class : Can be defined in multiple files since multiple developers work simultaneously

Structures : are user defined value types, that allows us to create a single variable to store multiple related data items of different types together
- They are light weight that represent small amount of data
- As they are allotted in stack memory, they are more memory - efficient
- hence can give better performance (garbage overhead not applicable)
- Can be used as safer alternates to primitive datatypes. By encapsulating related data, and provide methods to access
- Cannot have empty constructors unlike classes
- Cannot have partial initialization of fields in the constructor (should initialize all fields before exiting constructor)


