Exceptions : is an unwanted or unexpected event, which occurs during the execution of the program, i.e at runtime. This disrupts the flow and exposes the code
- In order to avoid these events from exposing or disruoting the flow of execution, we have to handle them to come out very subtly

Handling Exceptions :
 try{} - a block that identifies the code of probable exceptions
 catch(){} - handles the thrown exception
 finally{} - is used to execute statements irrespective of exceptions or not 
 throw - a jump statement meant to make use of a relevant exception class and throw it to the source of the problem


Exception Classes in c# :
 All exceptions are represented by classes
     System.Exception is the base class for all exceptions. There are 2 derived types of exception viz SystemExceptions (all predefined exception classes)  and ApplicationExceptions(user defined exception classes)


try is followed by one or more catch blocks only

User -> Exception Event -> an object of the exception class will be thrown to the program -> catch will handle the exception else the code disrupts
 

User Defined Exceptions : 1. create an exception class
                          2. decide when to raise an exception (code wise)
                          3. throw the exception
                          4. handle the exception

Checked and unchecked : is an arithmetic wrap around overflow of int values
  checked  : control overflows over performance
  unchecked : favours performance over overflow

Exceptions provide a mechanism for identifying and responding to errors /conditions
   1. what went wrong  - type of exception thrown
   2. where did it go wrong  - stacktrace
   3. why did it go wrong - message

Do's : use try/finally blocks around that block of code where there are potential errors
       make all catches centralized
       finally to be used to clean up 

Don'ts : Avoid throwing exceptions if you can check with a simple if clause
         Avoid throwing Exception() class object as it swallows all other exceptions as it is broad class
         Do not have empty catches 
 
         
Collections : are a set of values, that may be of different types and can be dynamic in size
some common classes :
   ArrayList : 
   SortedList
   Stacks : Last-in First - out
   Queues : First-in , First-out
   HashTable  : works with key value pairs
                Keys have to be non-null and unique
                values can be null or duplicates
                The data is sorted using hashing technique
                iterates with either keys or values
                if we need to iterate with both keys and values, then we use a variable of DictionaryEntry structure to iterate.
                Works efficiently in data search and retrieval

                         