Remoting : Is a mechanism for communication between objects of various other applications, that are not in the same process(domain), or in the same system 
  - The objects may be using different protocols, serialization formats, message formats etc
  - Is a Microsoft framework for remote communications
  - provides abstraction to various aspects of remote communication viz managing connections, marshalling data, reading/writing messages
  - Provides services like 
        - Object activation
        - Life time support of objects
        - Communication Channels
        - Transport message

Application Domain : When an application is loaded onto the memory, a process is created within the application

Context : Application domain is divided into various contexts. A context is a set of common constraints, usages, access, functionalities within the object

Proxies : Is an instance of the remote object directly available to the client. It does all the marshalling across context and then forward the request to actual remote object

Marshalling : Specifies how a remote object is exposed to the client. The process of passing parameters from one context to another. There are 2 to marshal
   1. marshal by value : the server/remote creates an object and passes the copy to the client
   2. marshal by ref : A proxy object of the remote is created and this object is used by the client for all processing

Channels : is a mechanism that allows data transfers through a stream of bytes (Httpchannel, Tcpchannel)

Types of Remote Objects :
  1. Single Call : Objects that serve one request
  2. Singleton : Objects that serve multiple requests of multiple clients. The server/remote maintains the state of each client and request
  3. Client Activated Objects : Upon clients request for a remote object , the instance of the required object is activated, and the reference of the object is sent back to the client. A proxy gets created at the client side and used for all services

Other options of communication :
 Remote Procedure Calls ( RPC)
 DCOM (Distributed COM)
 Remoting 
 Web Services
 WCF  - Windows communication Framework
 API  - Application Programming Interface