Transaction Management : ACID properties help in managing transactions efficiently

Atomicity : requires the transaction that involves more parts of changes/info. to commit fully or rollback fully

Consistency : requires the transaction to have a valid state of the data(either post changes or pre changes)

Isolation : requires the transaction which is still running, and yet to be committed does not interfere with other transactions

Durability : requires the transaction to preserve all committed data so that it can be made available to others

Locking : is a mechanism of saving the state of the object/entity during transaction
   - with 2 types of locks
    1. Shared Lock
    2. Exclusive Lock
locks are applied on
   - rows
   - pages
   - tables

Cursors : are objects that store the result set of any query and allows traversal over the rows
They are of 2 types 
  1. Implicit cursors : are created by the database engine automatically and are processed
  2. Explicit Cursors : are user defined that can be created, traversed, manipulated by user programs

Life Cycle :
 1. Declare a cursor
 2. Open the cursor
 3. Fetch the data as long as there are rows
 4. Close the cursor
 5. Deallocate the cursor

Cursor Traversal : 
 1. Forward only : cursors that can move forward only
 2. static cursors : cursors that do not reflect any changes made after opening it
 3. Dynamic cursor : cursors that reflect any changes made after opening it
 4. Keyset cursor : cursors that are driven by unique value

 About cursors
 Pros:
  - cursors are updatable
  - cursors can move forward, backwards using first, last, next, prior, relative, absolute
  - cursors have varied options to behave with regards to locking while updations
  - Global cursors can be passed as an argument to stored procedure 

Cons : are slower in performance than a While or a CTE

About While Loops :
Pros : are faster than cursors
       less usage of temp storage
       uses less amounts of lock

Cons : Moving back and forth is not possible
       Risk of infinite looping


File Groups : are basically a collection of file objects. 
    primary group is the default group where all data and transaction files are stored

whenever we create a database, sql server creates 2 files
   - A data file (.mdf)
   - A Transaction Log file (.ldf)

Secondary file group (.ndf)

Misc Functions :

1. isnull() - checks for null values in the expression. If null returns the replacement value,
 else returns the expression value itself
  - takes only 2 arguments

2. coalesce() - takes many arguments and tries to return the very first non - null value
 
The above 2 functions are very useful in handling null values and serves a quick and easy alternative

3. Rollup : is an operator that extends the functionality of a group by clause in finding the sub and grand totals

4. Cube : is an operator that extends the functionality of a group by clause in finding the sub and grand totals for all permutations and combinations of the columns specified in the query



